---
layout: phasetwo/post
title: Net-Zero-Ish
summary: Nope
---

I often oscillate between blissful ignorance and anxiously collapsing as the world collapses as a result of human-caused climate change. One small thing I do to combat this anxiety is try to offset my personal carbon emissions. It's complicated, it's expensive, and there's really not much benefit to me doing so. But I've always believed in leaving things a little better than when I found them. If you feel the same way, maybe my methodology might be helpful to you.

## Step 1: Estimate My Carbon Footprint.

I've estimated that my footprint is in the ballpark of **3 tons/mo**. The average American's footprint is about 2 tons/mo. My income is high, I own several houses, rarely fly, primarily drive an electric car / walk, have some rooftop solar, and overall try to care about my carbon footprint... so I've settled on 3 tons/mo. It's really just a guess. I'd say my actual footprint lies in the range of 1-20 tons/mo.

## Step 2: Find Offset Providers.

This is a cursed activity. The whole industry of carbon offsets is filled with nuance, constantly-shifting consensus, bleeding-edge science, and fraudsters that aren't very good at removing carbon but are quite adept at separating people and their money. The [CDR (Carbon Dioxide Removal) database](https://carbonplan.org/research/cdr-database) at (carbon)plan is a good place to get started and understand some of the variables involved. Here are some things I think about:

* **Does it remove carbon that otherwise wouldn't have been released?**  
  Capturing carbon from a natural gas plant isn't better than just shutting down the plant.
* **Is the carbon permanently sequestered?**  
  Saving a rainforest today doesn't stop someone from burning it down in the future.
* **Does it just create new emissions elsewhere?**  
  Growing a tree for lumber sequesters carbon, but cutting it down and transporting it releases carbon.

Ideally, I'd like to be removing 3 tons/mo, and preventing 30 tons/mo from being released. My thinking is that I'm _pretty sure_ the 3 tons/mo is carbon that would have otherwise not been removed, and it's _probably likely_ the 30 tons/mo is carbon that would have otherwise not been removed. Another way to look at this strategy is to say I'm removing the actual carbon I'm emitting, and as a backup I'm sponsoring someone else from emitting 10x my estimated emissions. I'm really just trying to make sure I'm not making things worse.

I've also chosen a diverse portfolio of offset providers. I'm not entirely sure any single provider is reliably removing the carbon they claim, and I'm certain there isn't one that is capable of scaling to meet the moment we're in right now. Something something, don't put all your eggs in one basket.

## In Conclusion

Effectively offsetting your carbon emissions is definitely possible! But it's also so costly as to only be reasonable for the ultra-wealthy. We have a long way to go.