---
layout: phasetwo/page
title: South Lake 25
---

Here is my dream: every street in town filled with vehicles traveling 25mph or less.

No driver wants to kill someone. No driver wants to hurt another person! It is the worst thing anyone can possibly imagine.

No one wants to ruin their car hitting a pothole or chunk of ice. Everyone wants our roads to _have_ less potholes and ice chunks on our roads.

Slower cars serve all these goals. Slower cars result in fewer accidents. Slower cars make our roads last longer.  Slower cars receive less damage when they hit road hazards. Slower cars make our plow driver's jobs less stressful.

---

## Higway 50 is a highway

Right now, Highway 50 is designed for tourists to blow past town to their destination. High speeds encourage them to skip Chicken in a Barrel, skip The Hangar, and skip South Lake Brewing on their way to their destination. People are angry on this highway, because you can't actually drive fast. It's filled with traffic and stoplights. So they slam on the accelerator, swerve around cars, and slam their brakes at the next intersection 20 seconds later.

**We can design a safer, more calming main street.** Drivers would be a bit calmer, maybe even a little happier. They'd be able to read business signs and see driveways. They might stop for a bite to eat on their way to their AirBnB.

This better design main street would make our sidewalks less stressful. Tourists would walk around more. They'd visit more businesses. They might grab a beer after lunch down the street.

---

## Caltrans

Caltrans has not been entirely honest with our city. If you travel to other cities in California in other Caltrans districts, things are different.

Why don't we have a school zone in front of the middle school?

Why does District 3 only use ACC/VM and 85th percentile speed traveled for their speed studies when the HDM requires including wildlife, driveway frequency, and snow removal?

Why can other mountain towns like Susanville have bump-outs, school zones, and pedestrian crossings?

Why did Caltrans install a bunch of traffic lights and pedestrian crossings over the summer and then never turn them on, leaving a dangerously confusing road all winter?

It is all very odd.

---

## Hiring an expert

I want to hire a traffic engineering consultant that is an advocate for our city — for the people who live here. Not for the people who visit. It is our town, not theirs. I want them to study our town and come up with a bold vision for a better main street. Here are my goals:

- Reduce the stress and intensity of our main street
- Improve the durability and quality of our asphalt
- Improve access to local businesses
- Improve the effeciency of our plowing operations

I think we can do this all without slowing down your commute to work. We can even make that commute less stressful. This is why we need an expert. Someone who understands the actual flow of traffic. Who understands that people drive according to the way the road is designed, not by the speed limit on the sidewalk next to it.

We'll take this vision to Caltrans and tell them: **this is what the people of South Lake Tahoe want our town to look like.** We shouldn't let people in Sacramento and the Bay Area design our town. We should be the masters of our future.

----

## I recommend this book

If you want to learn more, I highly recommend this book **[Confessions of a Recovering Engineer](https://www.confessions.engineer/)**. In a previous life, I was a Civil Engineer too. This book changed my entire perspective on how we should design our streets.

<ul class="itemized">
  <li>
  <h3><a href="https://www.confessions.engineer/">Confessions of a Recovering Engineer</a></h3>
  <p>The costs of the North American transportation system are too high—and not just in money, but in time, safety, and quality of life. No one should have to live in a community where transportation gets worse while costing more. It’s unwise and unfair to be wasting precious time and resources on something this bad.</p> 
  
  <p>In Confessions of a Recovering Engineer, Strong Towns founder and president Charles Marohn pulls back the curtain on the North American transportation system. Drawing on his decades of experience as a professional engineer and planner, he explains why the conventional approach to traffic engineering is making people less safe, bankrupting towns and cities, destroying the fabric of communities, and actually worsening the problems (like congestion) engineers set out to solve.</p>
  </li>
</ul>

If you email me an address in South Lake Tahoe, I'll mail you a copy for free. Feel free to reach out. 

<kyle@thoseasters.com>
